---
layout: post
title: Ya bimbo
categories: []
tags: []
external:
type: post
published: true

---

_(2013 04 15) Note: In retrospect,  this post makes me cringe, but I guess I'll leave it here._

If you're familiar with the Internet startup world, you've probably heard the term "pivot" being thrown about. What does pivot mean?

Eric Ries says:

>"I want to introduce the concept of the pivot, the idea that successful startups change directions but stay grounded in what they've learned."[^1]

I'm kind of obsessed with stuff like this, even though starting a startup still eludes me (for now). I talk about all this to talk about this: **I'm in the middle of a pivot**.

Now, how does a person pivot? How do you change direction and stay grounded? Well, I'm not totally sure as of now. I'm trying to understand, though. You see, I sort of had my hand forced in all of this. Let's go back to the beginning and then we'll go back to the end.

The beginning before the end, I guess.

I was in college as of this time last year. I was attending Herron School of Art & Design with an intended major of "Visual Communication Design". VC, in the school's parlance. I thought it was what I wanted to do. I was doing what I thought society wanted me to do because I thought society was right.

Then, summer came. And I became restless.

I dropped all my classes and I went looking for a job. I wasn't going to let an institution tell me I could be successful. And I found a job. I actually made quite a lot. My contracted, yearly salary was $45,000.[^2]

Woah. Like, mad woah. That was more money than my mind could handle. It was like telling me "You will make 10,000 gold bars a year." I was taken aback and I threw myself into my job. I worked too many hours and let my life sort of become consumed by all this.

### Lemons.[^3]

Then my mom got cancer. And my job wanted me to move to Austin.

I found all of that out in a span of a few days and I was supposed to leave quite soon after hearing all this news.

Sometimes, you come to a fork in the road. And either road is **the scariest thing you've ever had to do ever**. That's where I was about a month ago. So, I took the fork that seemed right.

I was unhappy with my job. I felt unfulfilled for various reasons that aren't important for your purposes. So, I quit.

### No job. No education. No problem?

I'm scared now. More scared than I've ever been. Listless doesn't even describe it. But, every day, I feel a step closer to truly becoming the person I want to be. One's own vision for one's life shouldn't be set in stone. I thought I was going to be a video game design when I was young. Then I pivoted to web designer. Then web developer. And now, I will stick with web creative[^4] for now. I'm on my way to becoming something I won't regret as much.

>"So many people forget why they even wanted money in the first place, seeking it blindly and fanatically."[^5]

[^1]: [Lessons Learned: Pivot, don't jump to a new vision](http://www.startuplessonslearned.com/2009/06/pivot-dont-jump-to-new-vision.html)
[^2]: Why does no one like talking about their salary? Is it a big secret that people make money? I get the whole shame bit, but I guess I'm a bit over it. So there. 45k.
[^3]: [Combustible lemons, in fact.](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g8ufRnf2Exc)
[^4]: I'm aware how dumb this sounds.
[^5]: Some guy on Reddit said this and I saved it, but neglected to save the link. Sorry, friend. Email me?
